Thank you, Arnold.
I feel very honored to be in your company, and you're all members of a profession which I really appreciate.
with appreciated libraries in two roles.
So you're talking about one role of libraries, appreciated libraries in two roles, one of repositories of knowledge, but also throughout all of my life there's really places in which to access that knowledge, places where you go in and there's a feeling of that.
academic values and just studying for whatever that tradition of knowledge bring back so far.
to have in a building.
So I don't know if people have asked what happens to institutions or the library or the university in the electronic age.
It may be that the two pieces get separated but I hope as well as preserving all the knowledge out there that somehow buildings and the places and that feeling of how important this is preserved as well.
So, I will, I don't know, I feel pretty, you know, you are alexis in this, so I feel at my own, I come with questions rather than answers, so I'd like to spend an hour just asking you questions on how you're going to spell forward.
But I can't.
But first of all, I think I'd better put forward a framework for a little while, and then we can do a beautiful question and answer at the end.
Let me see where I'm coming from about why I felt it was really important and exciting to put together the World Wide Web in the first place briefly.
And then try to throw some ideas, perhaps responses to some of the questions I think we all have about what we're going to do about preserving the collecting and preserving digital information in the future.
First of all, the web
conceptually, hopefully, about the web is that unlike the things you talked to on the internet beforehand, it's an abstract space.
It is just a space of information.
There really were two dreams originally behind it.
And even that original program in Fire Within One Everything had, it talked about one aspect of it, and I think the dream was also there, and that means the power of the back of us is a manual.
The first reason is that the outside source of information is the way you communicate.
As human beings, we communicate, well, we think of communication as a model of talking to each other on telephones.
So it's back in a huge amount of our communication.
And the communication that really counts, and the communication that you've been out at, is largely when we build something together.
When there is a piece of information which we work on together, then our little primitive
which works on the plans for the new wings, or a group of people putting together a newspaper, together create something.
As they do that, they end up building a little culture within themselves, because they've received terms in a particular way.
In doing that, they build little barriers between them and the rest of the world.
They create a space of information.
That information, the common information they have,
is the way they communicate.
And that's it.
This model of communication, for me, it worked very well when I was working at CERN, the particle physics lab, where everybody was trying to build things.
Often the physicists, the high-energy physicists, are spread across the world, but they can't have very many accelerators because they're rather expensive.
So they went to, they would all meet, for example, at Geneva at CERN, where there's some big accelerators.
And when they meet, they bring together all the pieces of huge tracts
or in their head with its software and they try to make it fit together.
So all this building together of a common idea about how something very, very large and completely new was going to be made happened across the internet much.
And it had all the problems that you see in general in large cultures, forming subcultures, whenever you form a subcultures you form a little barrier around the people, you have information, you have new terms, you have an information barrier,
When that group tries to sell its ideas to the larger group, that has to break out.
You see all these things which are on a large scale, you see in politics and war, on a national scale, small scale and families.
All this will be modelled by groups of people who are all connected on the net.
So, as a substrate as part of the world, the idea of the microcosm community, which was a microcosm
of the world of health and health.
These are all people who happen to have all the money and the information to get notifications on their desks.
So even before PCs and Macintoshes were on everybody else's desks, these people had value notifications so they could run web around us.
Part one of the dream was communication through a universal space information.
I think universal, I hope I'll say universal a lot of times because I want that to speak.
The whole point about the web is it is very universal.
If anything is important, you should have a URL to be on the web.
And if you want that, then you can't offer very much help.
So this web has got to be a very accommodating, minimally constraining way.
The design is supposed to be minimally constraining.
It will let absolutely anything to be in there.
It shouldn't be specific to culture.
It shouldn't be specific to particular languages.
It shouldn't be specific to particular sorts of information.
A lot of people have said, why don't you get rid of all the junk?
And I guess you'll spend the rest of the day talking about the question of how to tell what's jacked or what isn't jacked.
And I'll see it very simply, but in fact, it's very important that you should be able to have the scribble circle on the back of an envelope for a social equivalent, on the way, because it may in fact be part of the train of thought, train of reference, which leads to bigger and bigger things.
And you may one day want to trace the design of the bridge back to that envelope.
So the universality, in fact, of the web is something which the World Wide Web Consortium spent a lot of its time defending.
As each piece of design comes out from a new protocol or a new data format or something, we look at it and say, this could be training somehow.
Will this only work for very polished works?
Or will it only work for scruffy notes?
Will it only work for ASCII?
When we look around, there will be very many dimensions along which information varies.
One of the interesting directions along which information varies takes us to the second part of the dream.
Some of the information out there, a lot of the stuff that I just don't like, is designed for people, like people.
When you look at the, when you look at some poetry, it really is a brain-to-brain thing.
Poetry is difficult to analyze with a computer, and it, in fact, analyzes the poetry in a way
a tool kind of takes something away from it.
The whole thing is very much of a direct experience from one person going to another person's mind.
And there's a lot of stuff out there in libraries and on the web which is really designed personally by computer.
So on the web you will find a lot of information about stock prices and you will find a lot of information about weather.
But it's very difficult in fact to access that with a computer.
It's all designed, the medium at the moment is very much designed for people.
And when it's the person-to-person communication medium, the idea was that the computers and the networks should get out of the way.
The idea that computers should fit up in some way that you would impress them with the new operating system they had, and the new network connectivity they had, and the new application that they had, is really good, is very kind of productive.
When it comes to human being communicating with another human being, human being, the job of a computer is to get out of the way.
But then, what happened to that original idea of computers,
When my parents started working on in the fifties, they thought that they could help us solve all of the problems.
The computers have now vanished, and they're just part of the infrastructure.
They're just carrying the ditch around.
In fact, they're bringing the problems to us more and more rapidly.
We can get problems, 500 problems a day in our inbox, and they're not helping solve any of them, really.
So, dream two would just imagine we had an organization, suppose we took something like this, or suppose we took something like this, the system of libraries, or we took a lot of universities, and everybody working in that organization was doing everything with the web, because we've got our tools so intuitive that whenever you create something, whenever you note something down, you note it on some little bit of magic paper, which makes it immediately, which captures it immediately.
And not only that, when you make a reference, you don't just refer to Joe's paper, because Joe's in the room, somehow magically you manage to get a link.
So that all that structure is captured.
Supposing we could really take all of the humans into working in an organization, capture it on the web, then wouldn't it be really interesting, putting back the geek hat to write a program to run over that stuff and analyze it?
Wouldn't it be interesting to find out
how people really are grouped together in our organization.
I know the management said that we're in these divisions.
I know for the first year or two of the web business, I had one convert, Robert Caillou, he was in a different division.
We worked together on this project even though it was seven minutes walk between our offices because we were able to be far apart from the division.
I wonder how many people are like that.
And then wouldn't it be interesting to look at all the projects that are in their interrelationships and find out who actually
within the situations of working on no projects which are actually used by other projects which are actually critical to the famous nation.
How many people?
And who had written software which was described by no documents at all?
That would tell us some of the things about the structure of organization and maybe help us move to that magic sort of self-managing team.
So second part is computers coming back in and helping us analyze the information and play with us.
And there are a variety of services as agents.
At the moment, this is not working.
But at the end of this talk, I'll get back to the future, which I think it will work largely.
Although I say it's not working because really the only computer agent that most people come up with perhaps their email filters is one, but it's a search engine.
So if you want to do something very straightforward, like you want to look for a yellow car for sale in Massachusetts,
You go to your fake search engine of your type, your choice, and you type in, I want to buy a yellow car in Massachusetts.
I want to try it.
No, you've tried it.
You get back a whole other junk.
And the problem is, of course, that the computer doesn't have it.
When it read the page which somebody put up very close to you, for sale, Primrose Honda, right?
Didn't use the word yellow, didn't use the word car.
Good run up, free to go home.
It may not even use the word for sale.
There's nothing the computer can do, because the computer program can't, unless you believe the artificial intelligence in the natural language, which I'm not going to rely on, the computer can't understand that.
Which is funny, because a lot of that weather and a lot of the stock prices all came from databases and had a very, very well-defined form.
But if you write a program to try and access those databases through the web, it's really, really hairy.
So the second part of the web is, in fact, this extreme web where there is data on the web which has a very well-written meaning.
And so the two dreams were communication in one.
And secondly, it causes all this information that becomes available to computers, so we could actually use computers to analyze it.
Now, I should stop talking about those dreams.
I could talk a lot about the state of the web at the moment.
about the technical protocols and the changes we expect to happen.
I talked a lot about the social questions, like privacy, which we're very concerned with, encryption.
There are all sorts of areas in which we could get them to get a choreographed discussion.
But the topic of the day is preservation.
And I must say, this is really, really important to a lot of people.
It may be that one of the things Web of Standards has made it very
more directly clearly apparent to other people than it was before.
It's personally important to me.
Every time I pick up my digital camera and I get another camera, I'm very concerned that I shouldn't lose it.
And I'm very concerned that I can catalog it, I can find it afterwards, I can rate it.
And every time I get rid of an old computer and buy a new one, I try to take the entire content to the original version, and take it in one corner with a huge new space of the new machine.
And leave it there, hopefully.
And ever since the last 10 years, I've been finding everything by date, although I don't have to move things around.
But still, I wonder what's going to, in the long term, I find all the people I work with that do this as well, the team.
So that means that everything we talk about is on the web.
So there's tremendous potential and a really great fear.
At one point, we don't only keep it on the web, but it's a text file.
We use configuration control to keep track of every change to it.
At one point, we lost part of the repository for a few months.
We couldn't track the changes to documents.
And that, I thought, was a terrible, terrible loss.
We couldn't go back.
In that period of time, all the discussions, we couldn't track how a document got from here to here, edit by either, which was a very big chance.
And even though the website was mirrored on six different sites on different continents, that repository was only in one place.
So this preservation is very, very, it's, to me, a very, very immediate thing.
And I think there must be people all over the place who are thinking about exactly the same problems as you look like.
I think they may be waiting for you to tell in which direction to go.
So you may have some more responsibilities here.
A lot of questions that people ask me is about how to select, whether they are librarians or not.
How do we select the junk?
How do we select all things to keep?
We have very, very well-established institutions which have very, very complex and long-standing methods of collecting them.
So we have a system of academic journals, for example.
And generally, librarians, libraries have gone, have fallen into that for a couple of dollars.
We've lost hundreds of money.
And now, this is being threatened for all of us.
There are these online repositories of high-engine physics information.
In fact, some of the early ones raised a lot of questions about whether the journals have been cut out completely.
good people but the physicists were concerned that it took them 18 months to get their latest results out if they used the journal system or they started sidetracking it and using words loud and a rather interesting informal system of peer review and corridor to determine which words would think of the final system of formal review so things are definitely changing my feeling about the web as a whole is that it
Yes, it will change the structure of society because there are a lot of things that don't change.
One of the things that doesn't change is the capability of a human being.
We still can have so many relationships.
We can have so many connections with different people.
We can be interested in so many different areas.
We can read so many newspaper books in a certain time.
Each human being has got a certain capability to have, if you like, a certain
like an atom in a molecule to connect with so many different directions.
But the way it's done is it breaks down the barriers, but how do you choose those in different ways.
So the job we have now is how to rearrange ourselves, and each person has to think about how now I've got such a big choice of do I work.
I can work with somebody in Rhodesia about this project instead of somebody just next to me in Boston.
And how do I maximize my use of the system that I am in society under these situations?
And at the same time, institutions.
My feeling is very strongly that the solar structure of society has to have is fractal, that it has hail on different levels, like a coastline.
You look at a coastline from satellite, an incoming spaceship, I haven't done it personally, but I'm told in the picture that it looks pretty.
And then as you fly into aircraft level, it looks pretty still.
You see it at a different scale.
As you zoom in on this coastline, it has the same property that lots of natural systems have, like ferns, but as you zoom in,
is just as fascinating at every level.
And society tends to have that structure.
I think it's very important that it does have that structure.
So while there are some who would say, let's use the web, get rid of the institutions, and let's just have individual people all over, I feel that would be tremendously inefficient.
Similarly, those who say, the great thing about the web is it's allowed us to completely centralize all
They had to distribute the PCs, now they can put them all back on the mainframe again, and allow the people on the PCs to access them on the web.
So, in fact, people are very concerned about, they're worried about the heavens gate phenomenon, the very, very isolated cults occurring on the web, because you can limit who you cook very easily in email posts.
When you follow a link to a website, you only follow links that the person who's made from that website or other websites are staying with nature.
You can stay within a very narrow culture.
And similarly, at the same time, sometimes the same people are worried about that and worried about the McDonald's effect.
The fact that they feel, the French feel, that they open up high for America, increasing their bandwidth.
McDonald's will flood down.
I actually used that as an example once in a talk, and I went back to my hotel room and was there on both the folds of the USA today and pushed into the door.
There was a story about a French farmer who had actually driven up to a McDonald's being built near him.
chain around the building and pull it away with its back up.
This is real, but what society needs, in fact, it needs a balance.
It needs to be up there on every level.
So here we go.
Many men are working on the New England level.
You're probably involved in working on a little bit of a town.
Every now and again, you go to an international conference.
As a human being, you're working on different levels and you're helping the society have this practical nature.
So, an institution like a library has to sit there in the middle of it.
And it is, in my opinion, I think it is good to have some chunky, long-lived institutions.
And I think it's at the same time very important that they should be always challenged by the letter I. That there should be some larger writing ones and you shouldn't give them too much power.
What happens up now on the net is that when you have selection, there's business selection and endorsement of things.
which happens in very many different areas, or in very many different places as well, like newspapers, where a lot of information flows in, and some groups decide for all its values.
Just to it, it's high quality.
I see these things, there will be a diversification.
There's an interesting website, if we'd like, ePinions.com, or various of them, where you can go and the whole website exists by allowing people to cluster together and rate
for example, consumer products, and then rate each other's ideas, and basically build up little clusters of people who believe the same sort of thing.
I can imagine, and it's very interesting to imagine setting up a website which allows academics to do that, to rate each other's people very quickly, very efficiently, to build something moderated, not by a committee, but more basically by a program, which allows groups to become more and more important.
And if these groups rate each other, you can imagine a whole web
of different groups which endorse things and rate each other.
We get back to the 80-year-old questions of how does traditional science protect itself?
How do you make sure that there's a body of science which is not questioned and which you don't, you won't always be impacted by people telling you that UFOs are just, you know, break the rules of gravity or the gyroscopes break the rules of Newton's law of motion.
that we cut down that noise, that allow our children to learn things that we believe is good.
On the other hand, occasionally allow Einstein to come in and out to challenge.
And that would be accepted when he proved that, in fact, some of the traditional assumptions are wrong.
Same thing with libraries, that there will always be, I hope there will always be challenges.
And on the net, there will be websites, machines, which operate as a morale of endorphins.
And the important thing is that
The established community faces very, very strongly on the idea of putting together a long-lived community, a long-lived culture, and at the same time accept that there will be others all the time challenging it and realize that that is part of the process, realizing there will be newsgroups which in fact end up with a greater set of experts than conference.
What do you do then?
Then it becomes, in fact, more important to archive internet news groups than it does to archive the conference procedures, because that is where the creativity is happening, that's where the ideas are being put together.
That's where, if you want to find out what defines the field, that's where you go.
So it's very important to be able to recognize those things of switch.
It's important that, for example, you don't form a club of libraries across the world reject
any form of selection which is not from a member of the club.
Each library has got to be able to choose, interoperate, in a particular field, in a particular geographical area, the real social phenomena which are happening when it comes to selection.
And always, so each little group, I imagine each little group in a very organic way, with its own feeling about what, its own current feeling about what it feels to be, the fruits that it wishes to deserve.
always trying to find the best representation of that, but still, all we're not realizing is that everybody else is going to have different ideas, and those ideas are just a balance.
It's a really interesting balance between the chaos of allowing in any, any, any author who decides to put up about your library, and being stuck with one library which completely misses the next revolution.
So, I told you I was going to ask you questions instead of, uh,
I'll give you answers.
That is the requirement I put on it, that you should always be very accepting, and to work with all the other different, all these new upcoming things which challenge librarianship in a way.
If I use dedicated web writing, that's what I mean.
ability to be, to look at yourself and your organization as part of the web, as connecting not just hierarchically with one master and with a lot of women, but in a very flexible way with different people in different directions.
Now, when it comes to preservation, so much of the selection, when it comes to preservation, I can tell you at a moment what I've seen, a lot of people, I've stopped somebody in the street, what do you think is the kind of problem with the web?
You get a lot of answers, but one of them is Aeroforum 4.
Aeroforum 4 is... Preserving text is all very well, but you know what you preserve.
You preserve all those letters, all those links.
But preserving hypertext involves preserving the links.
The big problem we have now is preserving... persistence of that reference.
Now, there are some things which I feel are acceptable and some things are not.
You could push this message on to people in your computer.
A librarian at a university library, you could mention there's every single website in a library.
What is the excuse error for it for?
Well, the one excuse for not being for a website or being there
is that it was the website of our company which had a really diverse model that sold it, and nobody was interested in our company.
It's gone.
The company alone exists, none of the computers exist, and the domain name is now being completely under that service is no longer available.
That I will take as an exvalidant excuse.
After that I get a critical time.
The excuse which you get very often when you
and you walk your way down through the catalogs.
You found out what way you want to buy that present for your beloved on his or her birthday.
You get down to it, and you even find a web page which identifies a product that is ended by the right size, and you bookmark it.
And a month later, because you, because unusually you've decided to think about your beloved's birthday and multiple months have gone.
A month later, you come back there, and you click on the bookmark, you go to the page, and it says,
This page is no longer available at the address that you requested.
We have upgraded our website, and we hope that you will really enjoy our extra special, new, fancy version, provided care of our new website designers, who we think are just very, very, very special.
And we hope you'll enjoy browsing it to go to our homepage, click here.
Now, apart from that, I hate the words of click here.
But what's wrong with this?
What's wrong with this is that they've
They decided that they would completely rework their website.
But that page, the URL was for me.
That was the product number.
That was the partner.
That was the reference to the thing that they would sell me.
This is their business, is selling those shoes, or whatever it is.
And most companies that make parts, make things, they give them modal numbers, and they don't change those modal numbers.
No, it's the whole life of the company.
When the company's bought by another company,
Guess what?
They can recognize, they can distinguish between the modern numbers, the old modern numbers, the new modern numbers.
You can go back at any time and call up and say, hey, I want to buy EFN 6042-DAS, and they'll say, yep, we've got those.
Or that is now compatible with them.
You should buy one of these.
Forget it.
coming over the country where you have these things under those sinks that you're not aware of.
They have these things under those sinks which chew up anything you've got down there, like these things.
And sometimes when you turn them on they just go, and there's a cylinder, and sometimes it's like, and they turn back.
The first time I came across one of these things, I looked underneath it, and it's just a cylinder.
There's absolutely no idea what to do with it.
But on that cylinder was 800 of them.
So I picked up the $800 number and it says, congratulations, if you've got one of our in-thing disposal units and it was jammed, what you need to do is to take a quarter inch hexagonal wrench and stick it in the hole of the problem and move it backwards and forwards.
And if that unblocks it, all well and good.
And if it does not unblock it, close back and press, or say, one.
So I did that and I unblocked it.
I think that's wonderful, but I don't know how long that unit's been in there, but they kept the $800 number busy.
How likely would that have been to work if there had been a URL on there?
I thought, I wrote 404.
He'd go to a fancy new website, or we've been poor, or the bank.
I bank with a background here, which is recently pulled by another background here.
And they went to huge things to make sure that my bank account number didn't change.
They told me my bank account number didn't change.
But when I click on the icon on my desktop, to go there,
It's not there anymore.
But they've just been bought.
Now, I thought they could keep the old domain name going.
In fact, the site is exactly the same.
Instead of clicking here and going all the way through, I just changed the name of the bank in that part of the URL, which is really cheating.
You should never have to do that.
But to keep the old one going, it actually costs about something like a hundred...
I think they could probably have managed to keep it in parallel for a very long time.
So, now, seriously looking at this problem, why is it we get the lead-over-of-road force?
Why do people give what identifies to their information, to their parts, to their shoes, to their products, to parts of their company, to things like the concepts of customer service at this oil company?
Why do they give the identifiers which change?
And you're all used to giving things that end of life, which do not change when you give out.
You don't give out ISBNs, other people give out ISBNs, and they give them out twice.
You know, I understand, and correct me if I'm wrong, but I understand that some places, they just get short of ISBNs.
So, hey, you know, let's go back to some books which we don't expect to print soon, and that's beautiful.
I imagine that when you scan something, and you give it a number of things, and you don't give that to anything else again, ever.
Now why can't people do this for things on their website?
The answer is, it's really difficult for them to manage.
One is that the simple website that maps their website onto a file system, and people manage file systems in all kinds of hairy waves.
Unfortunately, traditionally, that's just been one way to be mapped.
So when you look at the oral, you'll find all kinds of things in there which you know are going to break.
As I bookmarked this really interesting article, I look at the oral and I thought, because in it there is a, you know, the Matilda student, slash Joel, slash Disc 1, slash, Cools, you know,
slash coolesttoday.html or something.
I think, well, how many of those things are going to be true tomorrow?
This one is not going to be true tomorrow.
Coolest is not going to be true tomorrow.
And it's not going to be maintained by Joe, either.
So the whole structure, you can see how they're doing it.
All these things that you put on something which says slash CGI dash bin.
Give me a break.
That's not about what this is.
It's about how you're giving it to me.
It's about your current software.
Sometimes you find in there the name of the company that produced the software.
so that they're totally committed to that company unless they break and break all the links to their site.
So I write and written very advanced about this.
And on our site, we try to, I realize it's difficult because we try to do it.
We try, for example, we haven't put W3.org.
And after that, after Splash 1998, Splash 2000, anything under there is a space which we just, we never read it.
So that if somebody wants to write it, scribble down a note and ask them, just put it in day-to-day.
And we know that since we started using day-to-day, the system managers said that they have never had a good plan, because they don't manage it, they never clean up.
Just come to government once suddenly, we forget about what a mess we have on the plate was, and we move on.
Another great thing is we don't reuse that.
So if you see that too, if you bookmark it, you know that it's not as a consortium.
We actually have a persistence policy too.
We all know about privacy policies, which you're supposed to have on your website.
Well, you're supposed to have a persistence policy, too.
We just don't know a lot about it.
Sometimes people point out, well, what's the point of me getting, of me going into a lot of trouble to make me persistent, when all the mess there is around brain names, my union, somebody just takes my domain name.
Maybe they take me to Port.
Turns out they have a trademark on NellyNet.
NellyNet.com from way back.
In fact, it's a company which makes whatever.
And, in fact, they pay it.
Because, in fact, they claim, through some IPR, which we now knew about, they claim that, in fact, they have ownership of that name.
So, how can we ever protect it?
What it comes down to, in fact, is a lot of organization, a lot of social, social, institutional commitment to not changing that.
The last part, the part, and the URL.
And when it comes to domain names, I would really like to see domain names, which you get for kids.
I would like to see .2000 domain names face.
If you get the main edit, you can get an MMS.2000 rather than an MMS.net.
And you know that nothing in 2000 can ever be given to anybody else.
So I would love to see archivists, librarians, and companies who actually feel that the information on their site is going to be interesting in a few years' time.
Start with the large oil companies, for example, companies which have a few departments and job editors who stand back and look from a few steps back.
and arrange one, so they will get a domain name which will never ever be reused.
I was told to Esther Dyson, who is running for the interim chair of ICANN, which manages the domain name whole group of art, and I asked her, is there any way I can get a domain name for keeps?
He said, no, they're for rent.
I asked her, is there any way I can get a domain name for keeps?
So that was the paper for yesterday.
So she said, well, they are now.
So suppose we have somewhere, okay, which would be there for kids.
And supposing we have them, we need more than that.
We need a social commitment so that if I put something in that space and my company goes down, I have already licensed anybody, any archivist, or group of archivist, to take that and to continue to serve that with posterity.
When I go back, when we go back, there's a lot of funny patents coming out.
People say they had patents at the World Wide Web a couple of years ago.
So we go back to the archives, which, in fact, somebody did keep some of the old email lists.
The newsgroups have gone.
I don't think that all .hypertexts were .
But www.info.cern.ch, that original mailing list is archived in the University of Calgary, although some of the links are a bit funny.
So we can go back there, you can follow through the archives, and you can find discussions of the specifications.
And when you click on the spec, you know, the discussion of that specification, it goes back to a link on the original website, to my design issues notes on info.cern.ch.
The CERN feels that as it doesn't have control of that anymore, info.cern.ch should be, there should be a point of access at WC.org where we keep that information now.
But there's been an archival of CERN, and the IT department took over the CERN group.
Now, anything in CERN, we could be routed to the CERN homepage, so you can find out about CERN.
So those things, when you follow, you did get a certain nicer thing, what we took forward is the appropriate thing, where the real information is still stored on our CERN group, wc.org.
But instead,
And then the next best thing will be CWP.org, where we have an error for a full page which has got a lot about how to try to get into our archives and suggest you can contact us, and we can bury into the archives and find things.
But in fact, for any real person who follows us, it's gone.
So we need to somehow, I wanted to, I ought to have gotten the persistent domain name there and made that commitment so that that stuff would just be automatically licensed, to be mirrored anywhere during the life of the company.
and to be married by a member of the group of signing up archivists or other companies after the life of that company, should that company cease to do this.
I would love to do that for our standards.
So, I leave that with you.
When we do technical standards, these things are social standards.
They're contracts.
I'd like to see people drawing those up and I'd like you guys to do it.
When we talk about how to preserve things, and very, very quickly, I'm not going to talk about how to preserve bits at all.
I'm sure there are great experts on how to preserve bits.
If you tell me what I should be putting my photographs on so that my great-great-grandchildren can read them, tell me, if you know.
But the interesting question of when you've read the stream of bits, what's that encoding?
So who on earth is going to be able to read that Microsoft Word version 3.2.1 document?
women in the future.
Now there, it seems that we do have something in common, because we do standards in the consortium.
We try to make this one universal web by getting people to use a few common standards.
The first one, you organize, in fact, universal resource identifiers or locators, all the most fundamental ones.
Those are the things which actually give something in existence on the web.
And then after that, you have these two standards, public GDP and HTML, and those are relatively grand in the scheme of things,
Because the URI has HTTP corollum on the front, we can relate to technology and move on to something which has something different on the front.
So we could go on HTTP2 corollum, for example.
But the HTML standard, which, again, is not primary, because I think both kinds of things on the web don't have the HTML.
And I thought, in fact, that the web would be one big mix of things, and just you'd find your way using HTML, and then eventually you found the information that would be in some other format.
I didn't realize how incredibly well it would take off.
But it has taken off.
So now we have a standard that HTML 4.0, for example, had to follow the theories of HTML 2, HTML 3.2, HTML 4.0.
And it is, in fact, now pretty solid.
It's got a lot of things in it which solve most people's needs.
So that you can, in fact, with anything which
I would imagine being interesting to a superior's information, where if you're going to write another declaration of independence, you can use ASO from point zero.
And, excuse me, one of the reasons that I suggest people should do it, apart from interoperability, apart from not using these up-up-up browsers, is, I say, well, you might be able to manage it today to make a website with a third, but with different browsers,
But what if I'm 200 years time?
Is nobody going to be interested in that piece of information at 200 years time?
Isn't there going to be some librarian somewhere who's being asked by some researcher, dereference this to me.
I've got a URL here.
And when they find your plan of JavaScript, is that librarian going to be able to understand what execution environments are added?
If you do it in HTML and you validate it, you can go to validated.w3.org and actually check the freebie for any page that it really is HTML.
One of the nice things is divisors.
In fact, HTML standards don't change that quickly, and they will change less and less quickly.
And the graphic status, somebody says, oh, it's a moving target.
Yes, there are new standards, but not that many in the grand scheme of things.
JPEG has been around for quite a long time.
It hasn't changed much.
So HTML, if you find a previous HTML page, it'll be
HTML4.
HTML4, I imagine a lot to be out there for a very long time.
I can't remember how long 8-Hole Punch-a-Tel-Teak was around.
I grew up with paper tape and I was still working with systems that could accept paper tape input.
I remember 30 years on.
So it is worth encouraging people to use that.
It's interesting.
It is worth going to the websites on your university campus and asking them
to plead, validate, pointing out they don't validate, saying that you as a library will have their website mirrors in eight different friendly libraries around the world, so that people will always be able to find out information, but you'll only do it if they use the following formats.
You won't do it.
You will skip the proprietary formats, partly because you don't want to encourage the proprietary, you don't want to be part of a battle between different
industry, but partly because you don't want to have to ask future generations of librarians to have to go and get out real computers and run old operating systems on them in order to be able to turn these into tables.
Anyway, so that's another thing I'd ask you to join the push for standards from the point of view of being able to access things in the future.
Let me move on to the final thing I'm going to say is to talk about what I see as really, really exciting for the web.
but I don't know where else it leaves the archiving.
So, let's look at this extreme of this dimension of, from the poetry of art, which is human to human, now to the database, which is a machine to machine.
At the moment there are a lot of databases out there, there's web, there's weather, there's stock prices, there are, now if you write a program, suppose you could find it, it's an interesting hypothesis, that the stock price of a dot com
vary depending on the amount of sunshine and sea airs in the hometown.
So, our track office is just tested.
That's quite a little program, just to track the software of a company, and track the weather at its base, and see whether they're in action.
See whether you can track a storm going across the company on those bands.
So, in principle, you should be able to write that program in a few lines.
But in fact, even though all the information is out there for a human being,
It's not available.
It's very different for access to a computer program.
You have to, your computer program has to pretend to be a browser, has to pick up the weather, has to throw away all the banner ads, has to throw away all the pretty big frills, the pictures of the sun coming out and stuff, and determine which of those, on that table, which of those numbers is the weather in the green centigrade.
And one day, you know, both your program will go and find, but one day it will change the format and it will start picking up a latitude instead.
And the whole thing, everything will go to pieces.
Where, in fact, there's a huge amount of information which is in databases.
It's wanted in database form, in mathematical form.
And you've got a business turning it into pretty web pages, and you've got another business that's not more showing that product.
You might send it back out of pretty web pages back into data.
So obviously, short-cutting to short that out and put the data on the web as data would be really interesting.
Now, we have a project called RDX.
resource description framework, which started off as, in fact, written largely by the library community, as a format for mathematically precisely defined metadata.
And the Dublin Core Initiative is one of its early uses, which used vocabulary for basic cataloging information about web resources or other resources that have.
So that you can put metadata on the web, and you may know a lot about that.
Now RDF can be the basis, also, of exposing the entire database.
There's something very interesting that happens when you expose the database on the web.
When you put something on the web, you give everything a URL.
This is different from the small post-world version of a database when you start, you run your favorite database program, FileMaker Pro or something, whatever it is.
And you type in a column name.
You type in lip code, or lip, or something.
And that's the last you think about it.
There's a column called the lip.
And there's a certain meaning to that.
may be people, may be contacts, and the column means the US postal zip code of the place where that person lives.
The zip code is just a little string in the database, which is used by people.
But wouldn't it be interesting, if you put that on the web, and suddenly that database gets the URL, and so does the concept of zip code, in principle.
You could take that to the name of the table, and you could add onto it the name of the column.
And you could say, that is the URI of the identifier of this concept of zip code.
Then you can do something very interesting.
You make a semantic link.
Say, well, there's a database here, which has got a concept called ZIP code.
And there's one over here that's got a concept called ZIP.
And you can write one line of RDF, which says, HTTP build up a lot of ZIP code.
It means exactly the same as HTTP build up a little bit ZIP.
You've made a semantic link.
If you make a few of those, now you may just make one of those.
That may not be very exciting.
Like I said, in the first hypertext, it's all exciting, because I spent
A lot of time trying to persuade people, whoever will be cool, and I show them the hypertext link, and it's a big deal, so what?
Now just imagine, there's millions and millions, and every conceivable thing you think of out there, and a bit you can't think of is out there, so you could think to it, the potential of it.
Just imagine if you link to that zip code column, and that zip code column has already been linked to a couple of others, which indirectly will be linked to almost every single database column which is a zip code in the whole planet.
Basically, you end up with a match.
So that the moment you make that link and say, or as you create your database, you say, oh, I'll use so-and-so's idea of zip code, you are related to the U.S.
Postal Service.
There's definitive concept of zip code indirectly.
And any query I'm doing on this database now from the web, my computer can start spamming.
You're looking for a person who has this car number plate and this zip code.
And you're looking at the employee database, but also I haven't got access to our member database and our
in our database of friends of the foundation, and we can move out and turn that query from something which made a lot of sense, and it's very well explained, and makes a lot of sense, in a much further away.
Now this is the key to making those databases actually useful, is linking them together.
In fact, it turns out that we don't just need a language which allows you to say, this is a synonym of this,
You also need to be able to say things like, ah, this equals this and the car addresses in Massachusetts.
You need to be able to export all the information you have.
You also need to be able to export rules.
A lot of knowledge systems have a bunch of facts and they have rules.
So it turns out that what we need is to unify us in fact logical language.
It turns out to be a higher order logic, which is a sort of classical logic in which you can write sentences and talk about sentences.
They find frightening because they worry about paradoxes.
But the world is full of paradoxes.
Remember, the web must be universal.
It must be able to allow you to express anything.
So the direction of what I call the semantic web is for what you find out there are mathematical formulae.
Mathematical formulae which turns our list to things in other mathematical formulae.
Well, when there's data, when there are just databases there, when you knew that everything you came to was a relational database, then you could imagine how you could take SQL and elaborate from something more difficult.
When it becomes all mathematical formulae, then in fact, there are a lot of questions you can ask, which were untractable, like the ones we're asking today.
But there will be lots and lots.
The great thing is that, in fact, if you've actually found something out of all of these things, you've got to produce proof, mathematical proof, that
This is, in fact, the right filter.
This is the other filter set in Massachusetts by no because.
But getting back to that problem, the computers weren't able to help with.
With the semantic web, they will.
They would just go out there and search for cars to sale and check.
But yes, this is really an object for sale according to the Universal Uniform Commercial Code or whatever it is.
And it is actually what you call yellow.
And it's in Massachusetts because it's zip code.
Zip code is the same as zip code and so on.
So the future
of a lot of very interesting information on the web, including a lot of technical catalogs.
Very quickly, people will have to put their catalogs together in this form, so that buyers can find them using programs which work through part compatibility, work through equivalence between Pantone, standard, green, green, and blue, to find an equivalent of part using much more complicated algorithms than people were.
So the things somebody asks you to archive will be a little bit of mathematics.
It may be digitally silent.
It may also be about digital signatures, so it may express a lot about trust.
The nice thing is that systems which do this, because they're looking at digital signatures, will use a lot of information about where this information came from.
All the time, these computers will not just be stacking in data like a search engine.
They will be stacking up data and remembering where it came from and who signed it.
And using that information will be the trust model.
So there will be a huge amount of information available for where things came from.
But somehow, what will you archive when you archive this mathematical statement that says, nobody who works for this organization drives a red car.
You ask the question, there's a red car blocking the entrance.
to be realized within this organization that drives the right car.
Okay?
Now, suppose you wanted to archive that in the library.
You want to go back and say, oh yeah.
And the machine will say, I know the cost.
Here's a listing twice.
Here's an excerpt of Massachusetts.
Here's a signed document I got from the Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles.
Here's another one I got from the Texas Registry of Motor Vehicles.
Here's the logic I put together to come to this conclusion.
So there's a whole kind of, I mean,
There were digital keys involved there, and the validity of that will provide digital keys which are our length, which will be completely easily practicable in 200 years time.
That is a whole new number of possible questions, which I leave you with, in my irresponsible fashion.
And now, it's kind of an interesting bit for me, because, thank you for your very patient attention, and now I'm interested in your questions.
We've got a few minutes now for questions.
There will also be question time later if you want to.
The question is, what would you have been stopped doing in order to take it?
Is there...
in order to organize information, is everybody going to become a librarian?
I think that's what's going to happen is people don't realize that they're librarians.
There's this question of, but wouldn't it be nice, why didn't we make the web hierarchical so that it was all automatically organized?
Then we wouldn't have to organize it.
When you organize it,
You take a piece of paper and a folder and you put one in the other.
You're making a statement.
You're saying, this piece of paper is relevant to this.
This is a fundamental piece of creativity.
When you take a bookmark, when you decide that you're going to bookmark the web page, you're making a very important statement.
This is interesting to me.
I always want the web to be a creative space.
I wanted people to be playing with web pages.
I still do.
It'll happen.
But in the sorry state of the world at the moment, when people, for most people, the amount of creativity they have is to make a book contest.
And in the early piece of browse, people got fanatical about their book contest.
They send it to their home, and they still do.
And if they lose them, if the machine cracks you, and somebody wipes out their book boxes.
Oh, no, identity is wrong.
Booker's identity is really just a little bit of connection.
End of booker's identity is become a connection to the definition of a word.
It's become a association with other things.
And when you open up information, what you're doing is using your intelligence to look at a whole mass of connections, close them down to one thing.
You think, this is we, child.
This is we, child.
This is development.
When you put something into your hierarchy, you never would agree more in confidence into a hierarchy, of course, as ever with them.
The hierarchy is totally personal.
It's always the personal point of view.
Dewey went a long way.
And most people since then have never been able to, Library of Congress went along the way too.
But in general, when there was somebody, very often it's where people start off a new hierarchy.
And the valuable thing about it is really personal.
The personal hierarchy expresses what the relationships are for them.
So this business of organizing information, putting something out or connecting it to something, is really intelligence at work.
Our human quest to try to acquire greater knowledge, whatever that is, that is the step out of which we follow that quest.
And when you look at writing, what we tell you is you're writing that sentence.
You're just organizing thoughts, you're just putting words in order, you're making references as well, and you're doing the same sort of thing.
Our human creativity is the organization of knowledge larger.
And, you know, if you want to speak, we'll put authority into that category as well.
When people make their photograph elements, when they chat about them over the phone, when they meet after a vacation, pull all their photographs on a coffee table together, move to the dining room table because there are so many, mush them around and throw up all the ones which they agree really should not be represented for the Czech grandchildren to see, and then pick the ones that could then represent what was really neat about that vacation.
That is a very creative
It's a very expressive act, so they're expressing what the vocation was for them.
They're doing it by manipulating images.
And why can't they do it on the web?
Why is it so difficult to do it on the web?
I think it's really important that they should.
But I would put it to you that everybody is a librarian, that organizing information is what we do every moment of our lives.
That's what we're here for, if you like.
And the fact that people now have so much information in digital form,
means that rather than only doing it in these rather impoverished ways, with pieces of paper on the table or with a bookmark list, soon they will be doing it with very creative tools, I hope, on the web.
They will be manipulating these photograph albums and typing in little things and making links to other sites for the places they visit.
You went to see the JFK Museum today blink and drag in that icon.
So people will become aware of that they're working in this way.
and they will become aware of everything that follows from it, the pain of throwing things away, the pain of realizing that you can throw something away when you want it the next day, and the worry about whether your disk is going to be readable in future generations.
And all the problems that you have here, now people are, you know, can I cut it onto a CD-ROM, and one more CD-ROM, should I just leave it over floppy?
So, maybe I'll order the process.
There was a program for a while on Web Alexa that purported to archive the web, I thought, and to make links by how people link from one thing to another as opposed to a certain thing.
Are you aware of this?
Yeah.
There are two things going on there.
So this is the creation of Brewster Kahle.
When I was trying to get the website off, Brewster Kahle had a project called Moind Area Information Service, which was connected with the Z3915.
So he's been in Network Information for a long time.
In fact, we incorporated the SOLTA AOL, after which Brewster thought one of the things that he looked at would be archiving this stuff.
So he did start archiving it.
And I had great hopes.
But basically,
Now, I understand, if anybody knows the state of this, it's an archive for Laurie.
I know it seems to have just been able to surface.
The rumor that I hear is that he was archiving a lot of stuff, but he couldn't put it back on the web again, because there's no intellectual property to write metadata.
So he couldn't determine whether this information, which was publicly on the web, would be, from its office point of view,
acceptably mirrors on his archive site.
So if he's keeping it, maybe in 30 years, he'll be able to put it up.
And that's one problem which I'd really like to tackle.
I'd like a dozen more folks to move on from just cataloging title and author to doing this intellectual property rights work.
And in fact, every year we consider having a working group about intellectual property rights metadata as a consortium.
And if people are interested, they'll come along, or mail me, and jump up and down, do this.
Because just having one bit, having one little audience tag you can put on something to say, this may be representative of a mirror site, or this is public to me, even though it doesn't apply to everything.
In fact, he had that one bit, which he's always wanted, since the waste days, he had one bit, which was sort of public, private, other.
And he didn't know what private or other men, but he knew what public is.
He knew that it was public.
And so, I think that the archive will still live.
Bruce D. Cahill is the person to ask about it.
And I think what we came across was lack of empathy.
Now, Alexa is another thing, also from Bruce D. Cahill, that we're connected.
But that is a system which
tries to figure out what will be interesting to you on the basis of what you've been browsing and where other people have gone from that page.
So you download the software, it attaches to your browser, and it notices where you go, and it notices where a lot of other people go, and it uses that information to try and figure out which other bets in some way
related to follow so it tries to then help you figure out which of the things which may be related to this time even if they're not linked from this site then the next page what's related system well which goes back a bunch of rdf from nest tape server to uh to the browser if you're using the what's related system is similar
Those systems both try to compile a rather single definitive list of what's related to what rather than what would be related to what.
So they're part of a really interesting class of applications which do store metadata about the connections, which look for connections which the author did not put in.
I think that this is going to be really interesting in the future.
I've always thought that the collaborative aspect of the web really hadn't gone as fast as it should have done.
And one of the tools for that is annotation, is the ability to put the yellow sticky on top of the whole page and share that yellow sticky with a particular community.
We have a collaboration project of consortium internally.
Because nobody else needed to be doing it, we just thought we had to do it in order to find out what was difficult about it.
And so we may work towards standards for collaboration, for annotation service, which would allow things like Alexa and the Netspace was related,
our annotation servers to use common protocols.
So while you're browsing a particular part of the web, you could also, your browser could be continually checking in with particular annotation servers to open their databases to see if anybody in the communities of interest to you had put annotations on that or had expressed as something else that it was related.
The thing becomes that it's a three-body problem or two-body problem, rather than just the climate is so, it's the climate is so, and the annotations.
So it becomes more complicated.
But I think it's really interesting, and I think that, in fact, for many of the things which librarians do express information about other things,
which, who's authors are now long gone, and to manage that, I think at the annotation service protocol is going to be a lot of important.
So, here you are.
I think we need to move on.
Okay, thanks again for your introduction.